Recently I've been trying to figure out ways to gain some linux system
administration experience. Open source is great, and there is an endless amount
of projects and groups to become involved with, but it is usually not
administration type tasks. I can develop for projects, and plan to. But I am
looking for some sysadmin experience because that is harder to get on my own
(unlike programming or developing).

One nice thing about the [Fedora Project](https://fedoraproject.org) is that
they make it *really* easy to join, and have an
entire [website](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Join) dedicated to guiding new
members through the process. One thing I particularly like about the Fedora
Project's join page is that they break it down into groups... and have
an [infrastructure group](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Infrastructure). 

I have tried getting involved with the infrastructure group in the past, but
never really got anywhere. I think it is about time I try again, hopefully
getting further this time. 

-- Spent some more time setting up for joining fedoraproject. I added the ssh
key from my VM on kadabra. I will figure out how to move that key to other
machines. 

Also hung out in chatroom a little bit.

This morning I went through and finished most of the sign up stuff. I then asked
about the apprentice group in the IRC and someone helped me look for an issue to
work on. We
found [issue 6087](https://pagure.io/fedora-infrastructure/issue/6087) and I
commented that I would look into it. They did the first part and it needs to be
added to ansible, which I guess I will try to do. No one has replied.
Regardless, I also figured out where all the infrastructure notes were and
started to read through them to learn how everything is setup. 

This seems really cool and I think that if I am able to actually get involved
with this, I could learn a lot real fast. More importantly, I would finally
learn some of the stuff I need to if I want to do administration. 
