+++
title  = "SELF 2019"
date   = "2019-06-22"
author = "Ryan Himmelwright"
image  = "img/posts/switching-to-mesh-network/flower-tree-innovation-train.jpg"
caption= "American Tobacco Campus, Durham NC"
tags   = ["Homelab", "Hardware", "wifi",]
draft  = "True"
Comments = "True"
+++


<!--more-->
## SELF

***Picture of Badge***

Easy drive for me. Got there and checked in. I liked the badge design :).


## Talks
### Building your own Cloud - Amolith

Started our by giving an overview of registering a domain name, getting a VPS
(and even touched on watching out for sever/company location and how their
privacy laws can affect you). He then showed a nice list of different services
and that can be self hosted.

Next, he started walking through setting up a server with server setups. People
gave feedback as he progressed and well all learned a bit from that. For
exammple, when creating ssh keys, you can use the `-a` flag and it will help
make it *much* more secure.

Then went through explaining how to install some stuff like nginx, nodejs, and
others.

Stuff went wrong, but we all had fun trying to figure it out.

### 3D Printers: Commodities or Toys for Enthusiasts? - Charles Bell, PhD

Speaker was well versed and has written books on 3D printers. Gave backgrounds
with 3D printing and well organized talk about the state and background of 3D
printers.

Went through the main types available today and was overall a good introduction
for something which I am *curious* about, but know absolutely *nothing* about.

Walked through buying used printers, what to look for when getting one, and
which ones a good to get used.


### Fedora: Thinking Beyond the Desktop - Matthew Miller

Canceled last minute. Stayed in the room and talked to people from work.


### Security ComplianceTesting with Inspec - Garrett Honeycutt
No idea what this would be about, but jumped in because it was the room next to
where we were sitting and we decided that we might as well XD.

Started talking about all the compliance and security standards and built it up
to ask about if we're starting to use Infra as code.... why are our security
policies are still word docs? Which is a _great_ point.

Led into talking about [Inspec](https://www.chef.io/products/chef-inspec/),
which is a Chef program. It lets you do the things you want to do, and
*validate* it does what you want. It *verifies* the end result.

You can combine this idea and releate it to test-driven development. So set
inspect to check what you *should* have first, and then build your automation
to get there.

It's a DSL that works with Ruby. It's agentless.

### Techie Builds Tiny Home - Zach Underwood
Techie that built a tony home. Interesting story and fun to hear. Talked a bit
about Deed restrictions which was kind of crazy. Enjoyed the whole thing. Maybe
because it had so many pictures!!

### Backups using Bacula (Community Edition) - Nick Bebout

Talked about the community edition. It's basically the same with a few less
features.

Gave an overview and talked about how these large backup systems work. It well
done and neat, but I was exhausted by this point.

