+++
title  = "TSQA 2020"
date   = "2020-04-17"
author = "Ryan Himmelwright"
image  = "img/posts/tsqa-2020/tsqa-2020-convention.jpeg"
caption = "TSQA 2020 - Durham Convention Center, Durham NC"
tags   = ["dev", "testing","events"]
draft  = "True"
Comments = "True"
+++

Several weeks ago, I attend TSQA 2020, the quality engineering conference presented every two years by the
[Triangle Software Quality Association](https://tsqa.org). Despite being hosted
by my local software testing group, the speakers were from all over. While only
a single-day conference, it was packed with all sorts of good advice and ideas
I left with. Here are my thoughts.

<!--more-->

## TSQA 2020

#### Getting There
TSQA was held at the [Durham Convention
Center](https://www.durhamconventioncenter.com) which is right in the middle of
downtown Durham (NC, USA). Being so close to the office, I managed to
convince/remind several of my co-workers to sign up. So, the morning of, I
drove the one mile to the office parking garage, and walked over to the
conference center.

As I walked inside, I immediately saw my manager at the entrance handing out
bandage (he was a volunteer for the conference) knew I was in the right place.
After saying hello and checking in, I made my way to the main ballroom to grab
some food. After awhile, my co-workers started trickling so we found a table
near the front and gathered for the Keynote.

#### Keynote

They keynote, presented by [Angie Jones](http://angiejones.tech) was an
entertaining look at history and future of technology. She took ideas that were
shown in [The Jetsons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Jetsons), and compared
how close (or far) we have come to many of them. She then used this as an
example of how we should be planning to test *future* technology, because like
it or not, it's coming. She then concluded by providing some examples of what
testing of the future *could* look like.

#### Talks

The rest of the day,

- Brief summary about the types of talks I went to

### Learning Points/Take-aways/some things to work on


#### No failing tests
Start thinking about automated tests as showing the 'state' of the
system, and failures indicate any deviation from that state. This
might mean that I write a test that shows a *known bug* is
occuring. But that's fine, because we *know* that bug happens, and if
anything changes, we should know. When the bug is fixed, we can update
or remove that test. To take things a step further, when we write the
test, we should document it with a message like *"See Issue
#XXXX. Remove/update when that issue is resolved*" with a description on *why* the test exists and *what* we expect to know about the state from it's results.

A passed or failed test is a data point, not a defect.

So on that note....

#### Better Documentation

*<< Insert meme about development documentation?? >>*


#### Remember who's writting the tests
- Framework and tools
    - Need to be on the level of the people working with it and viewing the results
    - It’s valuable to align the automation with the language of the dev team code
    - Creating high level language that minimizes steps to write out cases
        - Good tool but not end state

### Using Score cards/prioritizing what to automate


#### Look into BDD?


## Conclusion

Overall, I think what I took away from the conference was a set of
different ways to look at everything in my role as a QE.


- It was a great conference
- Diverse

